Update identifying-shared-costs.md (#110)
finopsfoundation/framework: challenges/identifying-shared-costs.md

<span id="why-allocate"></span>

> ## Inntroduction: what are shared costs?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction: what are shared costs?
```

> Examining two completely opposite (and over simplified) examples of cloud costs will illustrate what are and are not shared costs. Example #1: A web application is run on a single compute instance with both the web server and the datbase running locally. The compute instance only hosts this one, simple web application. As a general practice, the enterprise running the web application charges back costs based on product. In this case, the costs for both the compute instance and its attached block storage is not a shared cost: they are both charged back to the product owner of the single Web applicaiton running on the compute instance. Example #2: a single compute instance hosts a number of compute containers. The containers running on the compute instance run components of several different web applications and serve several different customers. The cloud provider bills the enterprise for the compute instance's run time and for the allocated block storage attached to the compute instance. The enterprise running these web applications charges back costs based on product. Because several different products run on the single computee instance, the costs for its run time and attached storage are shared costs for the enterprisee, which would like to develop an approach for splitting up the cost for the compute instance and charging the split costs back to the product owners.

Reviewer: I like the idea of "What are shared costs" before the "why allocated shared costs", but I have some thoughts.

Do you think this gets too technical too fast?  You go fairly technical with what a shared cost is, and then we go back to more high level in the following paragraph.

I think I'd also like the examples to be separated out into separate lines, but perhaps we can be even more high level than using something along the lines of saying a "compute instance". That's why I use the pizza example below to show what can be considered a shared cost... 

Are the two examples redundant?  Should we move the pizza example up to the beginning as "the venue is an example of a shared cost"?  I think that might flow better, because I think the second paragraph also has a lot of information -- it goes deep (with good data!) and then pulls back again.  Thoughts?

## Why allocate shared costs?

> Practitioners often struggle with which shared costs should and shoold not be split up and charged (or shown) back to cloud users. A foundational principle of FinOps is: “everyone takes ownership for their cloud usage,” which would argue that 100% of shared costs should be charged or shown back. However, a counter argument would be that cloud service users should only be "charged" with costs that they arguably have control over generating. Which is correct? One helpful framework for deciding when to charge back shared costs and when not to might be this: the two purposes of charging back ANY costs (cloud or not) are 1) to measure team performance and 2) to incentivize good behavior on the part of resource consumers. Because the process of charging back shared costs involves investment of time and effort, only those shared costs over which team members can exert at least partial control should be charged back. Here's a test for when and when not to charge back: "if I charge back this shared cost, will the resulting data cause any cloud consumers to change their consumption in a way that benefits the organization?" If there are no conceivable scenarios where they would, the shared cost should not be split and charged back. If there are meaninful scenarios involving material amounts of spend where they would, then the cost should be split and charged back. The key to understanding total cost of ownership is built upon transparency and accuracy, and unallocated shared costs over which cloud users have control hinder both of these. Without appropriately splitting such shared costs, engineers and product managers lack a complete picture of how much their products are really costing.

Reviewer: I love this additional data, but I think we're getting more into the proscriptive "when to allocate shared costs" vs why shared costs should be allocated at all.  Do you think it makes sense to move this later on in the document?  I'm thinking maybe the section of "How to do This" and Step 1: Identify what costs are shared, because the subject you're circling around is that.  what costs are shared are driven by this "when to know the costs are shared".  Thoughts?

Sr. Program Manager Stacy is responsible for accurate reporting from all the products of her program she manages. Not having shared costs distributed correctly could create a financial disadvantage for product budgets.

### Business: Product Owner Platform

> Quinn is the business owner of a shared platform which enables many product teams to deliver business value fast, reliably and securely. He has an obligation to showback or chargeback the costs that have been caused by the product teams by using his platform so he does not have to pay the party on his own.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quinn is the business owner of a shared platform which enables many product teams to deliver business value quickly, reliably, and securely. He has an obligation to either showback or chargeback the costs that have been caused by the product teams by using his platform so he does not have to pay the party on his own.
```
